---
layout: page
title: Courses
---

- [Integrative Omics Data Analysis: Tools and Techniques for Multi-Omics Studies](#integrative-omics-data-analysis-tools-and-techniques-for-multi-omics-studies)
- [Advanced R Programming including Parallel Processing](#advanced-r-programming-including-parallel-processing)
- [Survival Analysis and Generalized Linear Models in R](#survival-analysis-and-generalized-linear-models-in-r)
- [Modeling in R with Bayesian Statistics](#modeling-in-r-with-bayesian-statistics)

# Integrative Omics Data Analysis: Tools and Techniques for Multi-Omics Studies

## Overview:

The proposed course is designed to provide a comprehensive understanding of the methods, techniques, and software tools used in the integrative analysis of multi-omics data. The course is intended for researchers, bioinformaticians and data scientists interested in analyzing and interpreting multi-omics data, including genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics.

The course is divided into several independent modules, each covering a different aspect of integrative omics data analysis. The modules are taught through lectures, tutorials, and practical exercises. The course covers the following topics:

### Module 1: Introduction to Omics Data Analysis

- Overview of omics data types and their applications
- Data preprocessing, normalization, and quality control
- Statistical analysis and hypothesis testing

### Module 2: Machine Learning for Advanced Omics Data Analysis

- Introduction to machine learning
- Supervised and unsupervised learning methods
- Deep learning and neural networks
- Benchmarking and validation of predictive models

### Module 3: Single-Omics Data Analysis

- Genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics data analysis
- Differential expression analysis
- Pathway and functional enrichment analysis

### Module 4: Multi-Omics Data Integration

- Data integration methods and techniques
- Network analysis and visualization
- Correlation and co-expression analysis


### Module 5: Applications of Omics Data Analysis

- Disease diagnosis and prognosis in the context of survival analysis
- Drug discovery and development supported by generative adversarial networks
- Precision medicine

## Price and duration

Each module of the course is designed to last for 8 days, consisting of two submodules of 4 days each. We have priced each module at 6,000 EUR (28,000 PLN), and this represents excellent value for the quality of training and expertise that we can offer, including the access to training materials tailored to your needs.

Please note that we are currently experiencing high demand for the course, and availability is limited. If you are interested in registering for the course, please contact us as soon as possible to secure your place.

## Information

We are overwhelmed by the number of applications received for all modules in the course "Integrative Omics Data Analysis: Tools and Techniques for Multi-Omics Studies". As a result, our booking system is currently closed.

We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause. However, we still welcome your interest in the course and invite you to send an e-mail inquiry to Marcin Kosinski at m.p.kosinski@gmail.com. Marcin will provide you with further information regarding the availability of the course and how to register for future sessions.

## About Marcin

Marcin Kosiński is a highly experienced data scientist with over 15 years of experience in using the R programming language for data analysis. He has a Master of Mathematics degree and has worked extensively with clinical data in the omic context for multiple universities and companies. Marcin is particularly interested in analyzing genomic data and has contributed significantly to developing tools and software for this purpose.

Marcin is best known for his work on the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), where he wrote the first R package that provides a platform for researchers to search, download, and analyze data sets generated by TCGA. This package, used by multiple researchers worldwide, has significantly contributed to our understanding of cancer biology.

In addition to his work on TCGA, Marcin has organized many conferences, hackathons, and courses on data science, machine learning, and AI. He is a passionate advocate for using data-driven approaches to solve complex problems, and he enjoys sharing his knowledge and expertise with others.

Marcin is a frequent speaker at international conferences and workshops. He is also a sought-after consultant for companies and organizations looking to harness the power of data science for their businesses.



# Advanced R Programming including Parallel Processing

## Overview

The "Advanced R Programming including Parallel Processing" course is designed for R programmers who want to take their skills to the next level. This course covers advanced R programming concepts, such as data manipulation, visualization, statistical analysis, and machine learning.

In addition, the course provides an in-depth exploration of parallel processing in R, including basic parallel programming concepts, parallel computing with various packages such as parallel, snow, Rmpi, and PBDMPI, and parallel computing with Hadoop and Spark.

Participants will learn to optimize R code for high-performance computing and use tools such as vectorization, compilation, and Rcpp for C++ integration. They will also gain experience in working with big data in R and explore advanced debugging and profiling techniques.

The course will cover advanced topics like version control with Git and GitHub, creating R packages, and working with GPU in R.

Participants can work on real-world projects and collaborate with other R programmers. The course can be customized to meet the specific needs and interests of the participants.

By the end of the course, participants will have a solid understanding of advanced R programming concepts and parallel processing techniques, enabling them to develop faster, more efficient R code and analyze large-scale datasets with ease.

### Module 1: Introduction to Advanced R Programming

- Review of R basics
- Data structures in R
- Functions and Control Structures
- Object-Oriented Programming
- Debugging and Error Handling
- Best practices for R programming

### Module 2: Advanced Data Manipulation with R

- Data cleaning and transformation
- Data wrangling with dplyr and tidyr
- Data visualization with ggplot2
- Advanced statistical analysis with R
- Introduction to machine learning with R

### Module 3: Parallel Processing in R

- Introduction to parallel computing
- Basic parallel programming concepts
- Parallelizing R code with parallel package
- Parallel computing with snow, Rmpi, and PBDMPI
- Parallel computing with Hadoop and Spark

### Module 4: High-Performance Computing with R

- Introduction to high-performance computing
- Basic performance tuning techniques
- Optimizing R code with vectorization and compilation
- Using Rcpp for C++ integration
- Working with GPU in R

### Module 5: Advanced R Programming Tools and Techniques

- Version control with Git and GitHub
- Creating R packages
- Advanced debugging and profiling techniques
- Working with big data in R
- Advanced topics in R programming


## Information

We regret to inform you that the "Advanced R Programming including Parallel Processing" course is no longer available. Due to unforeseen circumstances, we are currently experiencing a shortage of qualified tutors to lead this course. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause.

We value your interest in our courses, and we encourage you to explore other courses available in our program. Please check our website for a list of available courses or contact us for further assistance.

# Survival Analysis and Generalized Linear Models in R

##Overview

The "Survival Analysis and Generalized Linear Models in R" course is designed for R programmers, statisticians, and researchers who want to learn how to perform survival analysis and generalized linear models (GLMs) using R.

The course covers survival analysis basics, including the Kaplan-Meier estimator, Cox proportional hazards model, time-varying covariates, and competing risks. Participants will also learn advanced survival analysis techniques, such as parametric survival models, cure models, and multiple imputations for missing data.

In the GLMs section, the course covers the exponential family of distributions, link functions, model selection, and validation. Participants will also learn how to perform linear and nonlinear regression models, categorical data analysis, and advanced topics such as mixed effects models, generalized estimating equations, and joint models.

Throughout the course, participants will learn how to implement these methods using R packages such as survival, glm and lme4. They will also gain practical experience working on real-world projects and analyzing datasets using R.

By the end of the course, participants will have a deep understanding of survival analysis and GLMs and be able to use R to implement these methods on their data. They will also have gained the skills to perform data analysis, interpret the results, and communicate their findings effectively.

### Module 1: Introduction to Survival Analysis

- Basics of survival analysis
- Kaplan-Meier estimator and survival functions
- Log-rank test and other statistical tests
- Cox proportional hazards model
- Time-varying covariates and stratified analysis
- Checking model assumptions

### Module 2: Introduction to Generalized Linear Models

- Overview of GLMs
- Exponential family of distributions
- Link functions and parameter estimation
- Model selection and validation
- Interpretation of GLM coefficients
- Deviance and goodness-of-fit


### Module 3: Advanced Survival Analysis

- Competing risks
- Fine and Gray proportional hazards model
- Parametric survival models
- Cure models and non-proportional hazards
- Multiple imputation for missing data in survival analysis
- Model selection and validation


### Module 4: Linear and Nonlinear Regression Models

- Simple and multiple linear regression models
- Polynomial regression models
- Nonlinear regression models
- Generalized linear regression models
- Diagnostics and model assessment

### Module 5: Categorical Data Analysis

- Binary and multinomial logistic regression
- Ordinal logistic regression
- Poisson regression
- Zero-inflated and negative binomial regression
- Model selection and validation

### Module 6: Advanced Topics in GLMs and Survival Analysis

- Mixed effects models
- Generalized estimating equations
- Longitudinal data analysis
- Joint models for longitudinal and survival data
- Nonparametric smoothing techniques
- Bayesian methods for GLMs and survival analysis

Note: The course can be customized to fit the needs of the participants, and additional modules may be added based on their interests and requirements.

## Price and duration

Each module of the course is designed to last for 8 days, consisting of two submodules of 4 days each. We have priced each module at 7,000 EUR (32,000 PLN), representing excellent value for the quality of training and expertise we can offer, including access to training materials tailored to your needs.

Remember that participation in this course requires a previous familiarity with the mathematical basics of statistics. The participants are also welcome to start with Modules 1 and 2, which gives a foundation for the other modules in this course.

Please note that we are currently experiencing high demand for the course, and availability is limited. If you are interested in registering for the course, please contact us as soon as possible to secure your place.

## About Marcin

Marcin Kosiński is a highly experienced R programmer and data scientist with over 15 years of experience in the field. He has worked with multiple universities and companies analyzing clinical data in the omic context, where he has applied his expertise in R programming to develop innovative solutions for data analysis.

Marcin's passion for R programming has led him to become an active member of the R community. He has written and contributed to several R packages, including the survminer package, which is widely used for the assessment and validation of survival models.

In addition to his technical skills, Marcin has a Master of Mathematics, which has given him a strong foundation in mathematical theory and problem-solving skills that he applies to his work in data science.

Marcin is also an enthusiastic organizer of conferences, hackathons, and courses about data science, machine learning, and AI. His dedication to sharing his knowledge and passion for R programming has inspired many young data scientists to pursue a career in the field.

Overall, Marcin Kosiński's extensive experience in R programming, data science, and mathematics makes him a highly respected figure in the field. His contributions to the R community have helped advance the field of data analysis and machine learning.

# Stochastic Modeling in R with Bayesian Statistics

## Overview 

The "Stochastic Modeling in R with Bayesian Statistics" course is designed for R programmers and data analysts who want to learn how to build stochastic models using Bayesian statistics in R.

The course covers the fundamentals of Bayesian statistics, including Bayes' theorem, prior and posterior distributions, and Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling. Participants will learn to implement Bayesian modeling techniques in R using popular packages such as Stan, JAGS, and MCMCpack.

The course also covers stochastic modeling techniques, including Monte Carlo simulation, Brownian motion, and stochastic differential equations. Participants will learn to apply these techniques to solve complex problems in various fields, including finance, physics, and engineering.

Throughout the course, participants will work on practical projects to apply their newly acquired skills to real-world problems. They will also learn how to visualize and interpret the results of their models and communicate their findings effectively.

By the end of the course, participants will have a deep understanding of Bayesian statistics and stochastic modeling in R, enabling them to develop and implement sophisticated models for a wide range of applications. They will also gain the skills necessary to evaluate and improve existing models and algorithms critically.

### Module 1: Introduction to Bayesian Statistics

- Bayesian concepts and Bayes' theorem
- Prior and posterior distributions
- Conjugate priors and Bayesian inference
- Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling
- Implementation of Bayesian models in R using Stan

### Module 2: Stochastic Modeling Techniques

- Monte Carlo simulation
- Brownian motion
- Stochastic differential equations
- Application of stochastic modeling in finance, physics, and engineering
- Model selection and validation

### Module 3: Advanced Bayesian Modeling Techniques

- Hierarchical models
- Bayesian regression models
- Bayesian time series analysis
- Bayesian non-parametric models
- Bayesian model averaging
- Bayesian model comparison

## Information

We regret to inform you that the "Stochastic Modeling in R with Bayesian Statistics" course is no longer available. Due to unforeseen circumstances, we are currently experiencing a shortage of qualified tutors to lead this course. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause.

We value your interest in our courses, and we encourage you to explore other courses available in our program. Please check our website for a list of available courses or contact us for further assistance.

